docs/maps/connect-to-ems.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-connect-to-ems]]
== Connect to Elastic Maps Service

https://www.elastic.co/elastic-maps-service[Elastic Maps Service (EMS)] is a service that hosts
tile layers and vector shapes of administrative boundaries.
If you are using Kibana's out-of-the-box settings, Maps is already configured to use EMS.

EMS requests are made to the following domains:

* tiles.maps.elastic.co
* vector.maps.elastic.co

Maps makes requests directly from the browser to EMS.

[float]
=== Disable Elastic Maps Service

You might experience EMS connection issues if your Kibana server or browser are on a private network or
behind a firewall. If this happens, you can disable the EMS connection to avoid unnecessary EMS requests.

To disable EMS, change your <<settings, kibana.yml>> file.

. Set `map.includeElasticMapsService` to `false` to turn off the EMS connection.
. Set `map.tilemap.url` to the URL of your tile server. This configures the default tile layer of Maps.

[float]
[id=elastic-maps-server]
=== Host Elastic Maps Service locally

If you cannot connect to Elastic Maps Service from the {kib} server or browser clients, and your cluster has the appropriate license level, you can opt to host the service on your own infrastructure.

{hosted-ems} is a self-managed version of Elastic Maps Service offered as a Docker image that provides both the EMS basemaps and EMS boundaries. The image is bundled with basemaps up to zoom level 8. After connecting it to your {es} cluster for license validation, you have the option to download and configure a more detailed basemaps database.

IMPORTANT: {hosted-ems} does not serve raster tiles, needed by Vega, coordinate, and region map visualizations.

You can use +docker pull+ to download the {hosted-ems} image from the Elastic Docker registry.

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]
Version {version} of {hosted-ems} has not yet been released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","bash",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------
docker pull {ems-docker-image}
----------------------------------

Start {hosted-ems} and expose the default port `8080`:

["source","bash",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------
docker run --rm --init --publish 8080:8080 \
  {ems-docker-image}
----------------------------------

Once {hosted-ems} is running, follow instructions from the webpage at `localhost:8080` to define a configuration file and optionally download a more detailed basemaps database.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/elastic-maps-server-instructions.png[Set-up instructions]

endif::[]

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-configuration]]
==== Configuration

{hosted-ems} reads properties from a configuration file in YAML format that is validated on startup. The location of this file is provided by the `EMS_PATH_CONF` environment variable and defaults to `/usr/src/app/server/config/elastic-maps-server.yml`.

*General settings*

[cols="2*<"]
|===
| [[ems-host]]`host`
 | Specifies the host of the backend server. To allow remote users to connect, set the value to the IP address or DNS name of the {hosted-ems} container. *Default: _your-hostname_*. <<server-host,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `port`
 | Specifies the port used by the backend server. Default: *`8080`*. <<server-port,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. 

| `basePath`
 | Specify a path at which to mount the server if you are running behind a proxy. This setting cannot end in a slash (`/`). <<server-basePath,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. 

| `ui`
 | Controls the display of the status page and the layer preview. *Default: `true`*

| `logging.level`
  | Verbosity of {hosted-ems} logs. Valid values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal`, and `silent`. *Default: `info`*

| `path.planet`
  | Path of the basemaps database. *Default: `/usr/src/app/data/planet.mbtiles`*
|===


*{es} connection and security settings*

[cols="2*<"]
|===

| `elasticsearch.host`
 | URL of the {es} instance to use for license validation.

| `elasticsearch.username` and `elasticsearch.password`
  | Credentials of a user with at least the `monitor` role.

| `elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities`
 | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates that make up a trusted certificate chain for {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by {hosted-ems} to establish trust when connecting to your {es} cluster. <<elasticsearch-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` and `elasticsearch.ssl.key`, and `elasticsearch.ssl.keyPassphrase`
 | Optional settings that provide the paths to the PEM-format SSL certificate and key files and the key password. These files are used to verify the identity of {hosted-ems} to {es} and are required when `xpack.security.http.ssl.client_authentication` in {es} is set to `required`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-cert-key,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `elasticsearch.ssl.verificationMode`
 | Controls the verification of the server certificate that {hosted-ems} receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection to {es}. Valid values are "`full`", "`certificate`", and "`none`". Using "`full`" performs hostname verification, using "`certificate`" skips hostname verification, and using "`none`" skips verification entirely. *Default: `full`*. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

|===

*Server security settings*

[cols="2*<"]
|===

| `ssl.enabled`
 | Enables SSL/TLS for inbound connections to {hosted-ems}. When set to `true`, a certificate and its corresponding private key must be provided. *Default: `false`*. <<server-ssl-enabled,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.certificateAuthorities`
 | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates that make up a trusted certificate chain for {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by the {hosted-ems} to establish trust when receiving inbound SSL/TLS connections from end users. <<server-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.key`, `ssl.certificate`, and `ssl.keyPassphrase`
  | Location of yor SSL key and certificate files and the password that decrypts the private key that is specified via `ssl.key`. This password is optional, as the key may not be encrypted. <<server-ssl-cert-key,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.supportedProtocols`
 | An array of supported protocols with versions.
Valid protocols: `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.3`. *Default: `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.3`*. <<server-ssl-supportedProtocols,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.cipherSuites`
 | Details on the format, and the valid options, are available via the
https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/ciphers.html#CIPHER-LIST-FORMAT[OpenSSL cipher list format documentation].
*Default: `TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256 TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, HIGH,!aNULL, !eNULL, !EXPORT, !DES, !RC4, !MD5, !PSK, !SRP, !CAMELLIA`*. <<server-ssl-cipherSuites,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
|===

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-bind-mount-config]]
===== Bind-mounted configuration

One way to configure {hosted-ems} is to provide `elastic-maps-server.yml` via bind-mounting. With +docker-compose+, the bind-mount can be specified like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  {hosted-ems}:
    image: {ems-docker-image}
    volumes:
      - ./elastic-maps-server.yml:/usr/src/app/server/config/elastic-maps-server.yml
--------------------------------------------

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-envvar-config]]
===== Environment variable configuration
All configuration settings can be overridden by environment variables that are named with all uppercase letters and by replacing YAML periods with underscores. For example `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` could be overridden by the environment variable `ELASTICSEARCH_SSL_CERTIFICATE`. Boolean variables must use the `true` or `false` strings.

WARNING: All information that you include in environment variables is visible through the `ps` command, including sensitive information.

These variables can be set with +docker-compose+ like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  {hosted-ems}:
    image: {ems-docker-image}
    environment:
      ELASTICSEARCH_HOST: http://elasticsearch.example.org
      ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME: 'ems'
      ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD: 'changeme'
----------------------------------------------------------

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-data]]
==== Data

{hosted-ems} hosts vector layer boundaries and vector tile basemaps for the entire planet. Boundaries include world countries, global administrative regions, and specific country regions. Basemaps up to zoom level 8 are bundled in the Docker image. These basemaps are sufficient for maps and dashboards at the country level. To present maps with higher detail, follow the instructions of the front page to download and configure the appropriate basemaps database. The most detailed basemaps at zoom level 14 are good for street level maps, but require ~90GB of disk space.


[role="screenshot"]
image::images/elastic-maps-server-basemaps.png[Basemaps download options]

TIP: The available basemaps and boundaries can be explored from the `/maps` endpoint in a web page that is your self-managed equivalent to https://maps.elastic.co.


[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-kibana]]
==== Kibana configuration

With {hosted-ems} running, add the `map.emsUrl` configuration key in your <<settings, kibana.yml>> file pointing to the root of the service. This setting will point {kib} to request EMS basemaps and boundaries from {hosted-ems}. Typically this will be the URL to the <<ems-host,host and port>> of {hosted-ems}. For example, `map.emsUrl: https://my-ems-server:8080`. 


[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-check]]
==== Status check

{hosted-ems} periodically runs a status check that is exposed in three different forms:

* At the root of {hosted-ems}, a web page will render the status of the different services.
* A JSON representation of {hosted-ems} status is available at the `/status` endpoint.
* The Docker https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck[`HEALTHCHECK`] instruction is run by default and will inform about the health of the service, running a process equivalent to the `/status` endpoint.

IMPORTANT: {hosted-ems} won't respond to any data request if the license validation is not fulfilled.


[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-logging]]
==== Logging

Logs are generated in {ecs-ref}[ECS JSON format] and emitted to the standard output and to `/var/log/elastic-maps-server/elastic-maps-server.log`. The server won't rotate the logs automatically but the `logrotate` tool is installed in the image. Mount `/dev/null` to the default log path if you want to disable the output to that file.

Commit message:

Adding clarification to the use of the environment variable in the Map Service
Adding some text to help clear out confusion by customers who thought that the `EMS_PATH_CONF` env variable is a host env var, instead of a env variable inside the docker container. Also, mentioning the `-e` docker flag that can be used on the docker command to start up the service.

docs/maps/connect-to-ems.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[maps-connect-to-ems]]
== Connect to Elastic Maps Service

https://www.elastic.co/elastic-maps-service[Elastic Maps Service (EMS)] is a service that hosts
tile layers and vector shapes of administrative boundaries.
If you are using Kibana's out-of-the-box settings, Maps is already configured to use EMS.

EMS requests are made to the following domains:

* tiles.maps.elastic.co
* vector.maps.elastic.co

Maps makes requests directly from the browser to EMS.

[float]
=== Disable Elastic Maps Service

You might experience EMS connection issues if your Kibana server or browser are on a private network or
behind a firewall. If this happens, you can disable the EMS connection to avoid unnecessary EMS requests.

To disable EMS, change your <<settings, kibana.yml>> file.

. Set `map.includeElasticMapsService` to `false` to turn off the EMS connection.
. Set `map.tilemap.url` to the URL of your tile server. This configures the default tile layer of Maps.

[float]
[id=elastic-maps-server]
=== Host Elastic Maps Service locally

If you cannot connect to Elastic Maps Service from the {kib} server or browser clients, and your cluster has the appropriate license level, you can opt to host the service on your own infrastructure.

{hosted-ems} is a self-managed version of Elastic Maps Service offered as a Docker image that provides both the EMS basemaps and EMS boundaries. The image is bundled with basemaps up to zoom level 8. After connecting it to your {es} cluster for license validation, you have the option to download and configure a more detailed basemaps database.

IMPORTANT: {hosted-ems} does not serve raster tiles, needed by Vega, coordinate, and region map visualizations.

You can use +docker pull+ to download the {hosted-ems} image from the Elastic Docker registry.

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]
Version {version} of {hosted-ems} has not yet been released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.
endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","bash",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------
docker pull {ems-docker-image}
----------------------------------

Start {hosted-ems} and expose the default port `8080`:

["source","bash",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------
docker run --rm --init --publish 8080:8080 \
  {ems-docker-image}
----------------------------------

Once {hosted-ems} is running, follow instructions from the webpage at `localhost:8080` to define a configuration file and optionally download a more detailed basemaps database.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/elastic-maps-server-instructions.png[Set-up instructions]

endif::[]

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-configuration]]
==== Configuration

{hosted-ems} reads properties from a configuration file in YAML format that is validated on startup. The location of this file is provided by the `EMS_PATH_CONF` container environment variable and defaults to `/usr/src/app/server/config/elastic-maps-server.yml`. This environment variable can be changed by making use of the `-e` docker flag of the start command.

*General settings*

[cols="2*<"]
|===
| [[ems-host]]`host`
 | Specifies the host of the backend server. To allow remote users to connect, set the value to the IP address or DNS name of the {hosted-ems} container. *Default: _your-hostname_*. <<server-host,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `port`
 | Specifies the port used by the backend server. Default: *`8080`*. <<server-port,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. 

| `basePath`
 | Specify a path at which to mount the server if you are running behind a proxy. This setting cannot end in a slash (`/`). <<server-basePath,Equivalent {kib} setting>>. 

| `ui`
 | Controls the display of the status page and the layer preview. *Default: `true`*

| `logging.level`
  | Verbosity of {hosted-ems} logs. Valid values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `fatal`, and `silent`. *Default: `info`*

| `path.planet`
  | Path of the basemaps database. *Default: `/usr/src/app/data/planet.mbtiles`*
|===


*{es} connection and security settings*

[cols="2*<"]
|===

| `elasticsearch.host`
 | URL of the {es} instance to use for license validation.

| `elasticsearch.username` and `elasticsearch.password`
  | Credentials of a user with at least the `monitor` role.

| `elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities`
 | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates that make up a trusted certificate chain for {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by {hosted-ems} to establish trust when connecting to your {es} cluster. <<elasticsearch-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` and `elasticsearch.ssl.key`, and `elasticsearch.ssl.keyPassphrase`
 | Optional settings that provide the paths to the PEM-format SSL certificate and key files and the key password. These files are used to verify the identity of {hosted-ems} to {es} and are required when `xpack.security.http.ssl.client_authentication` in {es} is set to `required`. <<elasticsearch-ssl-cert-key,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `elasticsearch.ssl.verificationMode`
 | Controls the verification of the server certificate that {hosted-ems} receives when making an outbound SSL/TLS connection to {es}. Valid values are "`full`", "`certificate`", and "`none`". Using "`full`" performs hostname verification, using "`certificate`" skips hostname verification, and using "`none`" skips verification entirely. *Default: `full`*. <<elasticsearch-ssl-verificationMode,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

|===

*Server security settings*

[cols="2*<"]
|===

| `ssl.enabled`
 | Enables SSL/TLS for inbound connections to {hosted-ems}. When set to `true`, a certificate and its corresponding private key must be provided. *Default: `false`*. <<server-ssl-enabled,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.certificateAuthorities`
 | Paths to one or more PEM-encoded X.509 certificate authority (CA) certificates that make up a trusted certificate chain for {hosted-ems}. This chain is used by the {hosted-ems} to establish trust when receiving inbound SSL/TLS connections from end users. <<server-ssl-certificateAuthorities,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.key`, `ssl.certificate`, and `ssl.keyPassphrase`
  | Location of yor SSL key and certificate files and the password that decrypts the private key that is specified via `ssl.key`. This password is optional, as the key may not be encrypted. <<server-ssl-cert-key,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.supportedProtocols`
 | An array of supported protocols with versions.
Valid protocols: `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.3`. *Default: `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`, `TLSv1.3`*. <<server-ssl-supportedProtocols,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.

| `ssl.cipherSuites`
 | Details on the format, and the valid options, are available via the
https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/ciphers.html#CIPHER-LIST-FORMAT[OpenSSL cipher list format documentation].
*Default: `TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384 TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256 TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256 ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384, ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256, HIGH,!aNULL, !eNULL, !EXPORT, !DES, !RC4, !MD5, !PSK, !SRP, !CAMELLIA`*. <<server-ssl-cipherSuites,Equivalent {kib} setting>>.
|===

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-bind-mount-config]]
===== Bind-mounted configuration

One way to configure {hosted-ems} is to provide `elastic-maps-server.yml` via bind-mounting. With +docker-compose+, the bind-mount can be specified like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  {hosted-ems}:
    image: {ems-docker-image}
    volumes:
      - ./elastic-maps-server.yml:/usr/src/app/server/config/elastic-maps-server.yml
--------------------------------------------

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-envvar-config]]
===== Environment variable configuration
All configuration settings can be overridden by environment variables that are named with all uppercase letters and by replacing YAML periods with underscores. For example `elasticsearch.ssl.certificate` could be overridden by the environment variable `ELASTICSEARCH_SSL_CERTIFICATE`. Boolean variables must use the `true` or `false` strings.

WARNING: All information that you include in environment variables is visible through the `ps` command, including sensitive information.

These variables can be set with +docker-compose+ like this:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------
version: '2'
services:
  {hosted-ems}:
    image: {ems-docker-image}
    environment:
      ELASTICSEARCH_HOST: http://elasticsearch.example.org
      ELASTICSEARCH_USERNAME: 'ems'
      ELASTICSEARCH_PASSWORD: 'changeme'
----------------------------------------------------------

[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-data]]
==== Data

{hosted-ems} hosts vector layer boundaries and vector tile basemaps for the entire planet. Boundaries include world countries, global administrative regions, and specific country regions. Basemaps up to zoom level 8 are bundled in the Docker image. These basemaps are sufficient for maps and dashboards at the country level. To present maps with higher detail, follow the instructions of the front page to download and configure the appropriate basemaps database. The most detailed basemaps at zoom level 14 are good for street level maps, but require ~90GB of disk space.


[role="screenshot"]
image::images/elastic-maps-server-basemaps.png[Basemaps download options]

TIP: The available basemaps and boundaries can be explored from the `/maps` endpoint in a web page that is your self-managed equivalent to https://maps.elastic.co.


[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-kibana]]
==== Kibana configuration

With {hosted-ems} running, add the `map.emsUrl` configuration key in your <<settings, kibana.yml>> file pointing to the root of the service. This setting will point {kib} to request EMS basemaps and boundaries from {hosted-ems}. Typically this will be the URL to the <<ems-host,host and port>> of {hosted-ems}. For example, `map.emsUrl: https://my-ems-server:8080`. 


[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-check]]
==== Status check

{hosted-ems} periodically runs a status check that is exposed in three different forms:

* At the root of {hosted-ems}, a web page will render the status of the different services.
* A JSON representation of {hosted-ems} status is available at the `/status` endpoint.
* The Docker https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck[`HEALTHCHECK`] instruction is run by default and will inform about the health of the service, running a process equivalent to the `/status` endpoint.

IMPORTANT: {hosted-ems} won't respond to any data request if the license validation is not fulfilled.


[float]
[[elastic-maps-server-logging]]
==== Logging

Logs are generated in {ecs-ref}[ECS JSON format] and emitted to the standard output and to `/var/log/elastic-maps-server/elastic-maps-server.log`. The server won't rotate the logs automatically but the `logrotate` tool is installed in the image. Mount `/dev/null` to the default log path if you want to disable the output to that file.
